{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red129\green255\blue255;\red36\green255\blue255;\red141\green0\blue2;
\red255\green255\blue11;\red18\green111\blue167;\red139\green255\blue8;\red133\green80\blue3;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c56043\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c4983\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c62986\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c4205\c51291\c71506;\cssrgb\c59955\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c59784\c38775\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14100\viewh10740\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 REVISITING AIRBNB REPO CHRISTMAS WEEK MVP
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\

\f0\b \cf3 Key reference
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx3921\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 lecture notes from mike rosetti\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 https://github.com/s2t2/lambda-ds-3-3\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 lecture notes from lambda\cf0 \
https://github.com/LambdaSchool/DS-Unit-3-Sprint-3-Productization-and-Cloud/tree/master/module4-web-application-deployment\
\
\cf2 video:\cf0 \
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RXJT5nnrb50&feature=youtu.be\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf3 run this locally:
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
if pipenv has been installed with dependencies: pipenv shell\
***\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 FLASK_APP=web_app flask run\cf0 \
access http://localhost:5000/ to prediction form\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf3 run this on the cloud (heroku)
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
1. heroku login\
\
2. push repo to heroku server:\
(a) create a new app server\
heroku create airbnb-predictions\
\
now, you have two git repositories\
\
heroku run bash\
\
FYI:\
# check remote\
git remote - v\
\
\
ARCHITECTURE SUMMARY:\
TBA\
- heroku PaaS\
\
\
EVENTS\
(1) \
TROUBLESHOOTING: prediction not working!\
(2) \
BASIC prediction functionally works in local environment!\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf5 LINEAR model\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
(3) deploying to production in heroku (watching video)\
\
(4) heroku troubleshooting / updating heroku *****\
\
(5) heroku troubleshooting\
issue? \cf5 build packs update?\cf0 \
	issue? pipfile in root folder. reinstalling:\
		pipenv install Flask, scikit-learn, pandas, numpy\
			fix: breaking up pipenv install\
\
(6) heroku troubleshooting\
\
issue? build packs update?\
	issue? pipfile in root folder. reinstalling:\
		pipenv install Flask, scikit-learn, pandas, numpy\
			fix: breaking up pipenv install\
issue? build packs update?\
	adding runtime.txt \
		FAIL\
	trying: heroku buildpacks:set heroku/php\
		FAIL\
	trying: delete app and re-do \
		heroku create airbnb-predictions\
		FAIL\
			potential cause python 3.7 not supported by heroku\
			try 3.7.9, 3.8..6, 3.9.1\
			pipenv --python 3.7.9 FAIL\
			try updating pipfile: python_version = "3.7.9"\
\
(7)\
			....\
			** try updating pipfile: python_version = "3.7.9". stack "heroku-18" does not support 3.7.3?\
\
\
(8)\
			...\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf6 			push repo to origin\
			heroku create airbnb-predictions --buildpack heroku/python\
			then git push origin main\
				NEW ERROR "Your Pipfile.lock (89cdec) is out of date. Expected: (f17a82)."\
					fix: deleted it. exited shell. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
			\
\
(9)			....\
				NEW ERROR "Your Pipfile.lock (89cdec) is out of date. Expected: (f17a82)."\
					fix: deleted it. exited shell. \
\
(10)			....\
				Updated more dependencies. the pipfile was not setup properly earlier\
					deployment successful: \
						BUT error: H14 "no web dynos working" \
						ref: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/error-codes\
						\
						scale dynos from 0 to 1?\
\
**heroku logs --tail\
\
DEC 21\
\
(1ST HOUR)\
		....					\
			ISSUE: CANNOT SCALE DYNOS. \
			pipenv out of data:> delete and then pipenv lock. git push to origin and heroku\
\
\
			new issue: H10 error / dyne crashes\
\
			Procfile variations: \
			web: gunicorn --bind 0.0.0.0:$PORT flaskapp:app\
			web: gunicorn wsgi:app\
			web: gunicorn app:app\
\
NEXT: WATCH LECTURE VIDEO\
\
(2ND HOUR)\
	lecture video. Pipfile that repository (or requirements.txt)\
	FIXED!!\
	# app.run(debug=True) WHAT A PIECE OF SHIT!!!!!\
\
	1t MVP DONE!!!!!!!\
	c17a406\
\
	\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf7 SHORTCUT TIP: cmd + shift + . to expose hidden files\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 relevant definitions:
\f1\b0 \
Gunicorn is a pure-Python HTTP server for WSGI applications. It allows you to run any Python application concurrently by running multiple Python processes within a single dyno. It provides a perfect balance of performance, flexibility, and configuration simplicity.\
\
\

\f0\b \cf8 LINKS
\f1\b0 \
FYI: \
ryan herr's dash template\
https://lambdaschool.github.io/ds/unit2/dash-template/\
\
ryan herr's dash template repo:\
https://github.com/rrherr/dash-template\
\
ryan herr's walkthrough on Youtube:\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FreMhNpddEE&feature=youtu.be&t=2593\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf4 NEXT STEPS\

\f1\b0 \
housekeeping:\
- clean up repo superficially\
- README\
\
- remove\
	- irisclassifir\
	- models.py\
	- routes: book_routes (and/or home_routes)\
	- databases\
\
MVP#2:\
- model updates: simplify model + \
- deploy it a separate branch OR deploy it in a new app?\
- presentable output in flask\
- research actual pricing engine stuff\
- blog notebook\
- architecture summary\
\
MVP#3:\
- fastAPI\
\
\
OTHERS:\
- ensure model is accurate.\
- run this with a random forest?\
- revisit modeling\
ENSURE\
\
FUTURE ITERATIONS OF SAME\
- download twitoff and reverse engineer from its scaffold\
\
\
QUESTION\
\
- i made the mistake of trying to code up a heroku app instead of reverse engineering a scaffold. and it took way too long.\
so i could undertand the pieces and customize as necessary. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}